Docs: ruler remote evaluation (#1714)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/configuring/configuring-to-evaluate-rules-using-query-frontend.md

---
title: "Configuring Grafana Mimir to evaluate rules using query-frontend"
menuTitle: "Configuring to evaluate rules using query-frontend"
description: "Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir ruler to use query-frontend for rule evaluation."
weight: 95
---

# Configuring to evaluate rules using query-frontend

Grafana Mimir allows you to configure the ruler to delegate evaluation of rule expressions to the query-frontend.

> In this way, it is possible to leverage query optimization capabilities (e.g. [query sharding]({{< relref "../architecture/query-sharding/index.md" >}})) in order to drastically reduce evaluation times.

Reviewer: This change conforms with Grafana Labs technical documentation style.

## Configuration

> To enable query-frontend rule evaluation, you need to set `-ruler.query-frontend.address` CLI flag or its respective YAML configuration parameter for the ruler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable query-frontend rule evaluation, set the `-ruler.query-frontend.address` CLI flag or its respective YAML configuration parameter for the ruler.
```

> Communication between ruler and query-frontend is established over gRPC, so if needed, we can make use of client-side load balancing by prefixing the address value with the `dns://` literal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Communication between ruler and query-frontend is established over gRPC, so if needed, we can make use of client-side load balancing by prefixing the address value with `dns://`.
```
Is "literal" necessary here? Vet for technical accuracy.

> On top of that, there's a set of extra parameters `-ruler.query-frontend.tls-*` (and its respective YAML configuration options) that allow us to secure the connection when necessary.

Reviewer 2: I would like "secure the connection" to the TLS documentation page.

> On top of that, there's a set of extra parameters `-ruler.query-frontend.tls-*` (and its respective YAML configuration options) that allow us to secure the connection when necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, there is a set of extra parameters (`-ruler.query-frontend.tls-*` or its respective YAML configuration options) that allow you to secure the connection when necessary.
```

Reviewer: Reworded to conform to voice and tone.
